1. What Ps ProgrammPng language?

Ans: Programming is a practice that strengthens our capacity for logical thought and problem-solving. It 
teaches us how to carry out a task with the aid of software or a computer program. So, to put it simply, 
programming is the process of using computer language to bring a solution to a problem into practice. 


2. Why do we need a programmPng language?

Ans: Programming Language- it is vocabulary and a collection of rules that command a computer, devices, 
applications to work according to the written codes. The programming language enables us to write efficient 
programs and develop online solutions such as- mobile applications, web applications, and games, etc.

Programming is used to automate, maintain, assemble, measure and interpret the processing of the data and 
information. It helps in accelerating the input and output of the devices or applicationsJ
3. Features of 1avO
0 Object-Oriented - The features of object-oriented programming are supported by Java. Its object model is 
straightforward and flexibleI
0 Platform independent - Because Java and C++ are platform independent, application programs created in 
one Operating system can run on any other Operating system. C and C++, however, are platform 
dependent languages, making it impossible for application programs created in one Operating system to 
run in any other Operating systemI
0 Simple - Because Java incorporates many C/C++ capabilities, it is simple to understandI
0 Secure - Java offers a variety of defences against malware and viruses. It guarantees that neither damage 
nor security will be compromisedI
0 Portable - We have the idea of portability in Java. Java allows the same software to run on various 
platformsI
0 Robust - It assists us in identifying potential errors as soon as feasible during program developmentI
0 Multi-threaded - Java's multithreading programming capability enables you to create a program that 
executes multiple tasks concurrentlyI
0 Distributed -Java maintains the TCP/IP protocol and is therefore suitable for distributed Internet 
environmentsJ
4. What Ps an Object?

Ans: An object is an entity with state and behaviour, such as a chair, bike, marker, pen, table, or car. It could be 
intellectual or physical (tangible and intangible). The banking system is an illustration of an intangible entityJ
5. What Ps a Class? 

Ans: A class is a collection of items with similar characteristics. It serves as a model or blueprint from which 
things can be made. It makes sense as a whole. It cannot be bodily